---
layout: post
title: Teachers Outside of the Classroom
tags:
  - Amanda Branhan
  - Interviews
---

  As students that see our teachers on a daily basis we get to know our teachers very well, 
  but do we know much about them outside the classroom? The thought of this intrigued me, 
so I looked for a teacher that I could interview and really get to know. After talking with 
people I found out that our very own graphic arts teacher, Mr.Shelton runs a T-Shirt design 
company with his wife. I immediately wanted to know more so I set up an interview. The goal
of this interview was to really find out why this company exists and what the company is. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Amanda - So I hear you have a T-Shirt design company, what’s it called? Tell me about it.
Mr. Shelton - Our company is called Panda Red Apparel. Our clothing is made from 100% 
recycled materials (reclaimed plastic bottles spun into thread and factory clothing scraps). 
We feature designs of different endangered animals, and we give portions of our profits to 
different wildlife conservation groups.

Amanda - How did this company start?
Mr. Shelton - It all kind of started when my wife, Sara, and I got to work on an elephant
sanctuary while visiting Thailand a few years ago. It was a really eye opening experience
because we love animals and felt great about getting to help. We then had donated to a few
animal conservation funds in our daughter's name for her birthday and Christmas, and felt
like somehow we could do more. The idea for Panda Red itself came when I did a demo in my
8th Grade class, and I drew a red panda logo that I really liked. I couldn't get it out of
my head, so after talking with Sara we decided to create our company!

Amanda - What is your specific job in this company?
Mr. Shelton - I create the actual designs that go on the clothing, bottles, and stickers. 
I also do some of the web design for our site.

Amanda - Does what you do in the company carry over to what you teach in your class or vise versa?
Mr. Shelton - Yes! When I do demonstrations for my classes I show them the same process that I use
when I create my designs. Sometimes I like what I create during these demonstrations, and I tinker
with it and turn it into one of our final designs.

Amanda - How are you able to manage both your lessons and the company?
Mr. Shelton - Really, my wife does all of the hard work for the company. She handles the logistics
of the business and I get to the fun stuff, like creating designs for the shirts. These don't typically
take me too long, and it is nice to work on them at home when I need a break from school work.
Amanda - Have you always wanted to have a company or was this something that started after you started graphic arts?
Mr. Shelton - My wife has always had an entrepreneurial spirit, and we knew that we wanted to do something
that we felt would make a small difference in the world. It came from a few of our life experiences and 
work that I was creating in Graphic Arts class. So, in a way, if I didn't teach Graphic Arts, we probably
never would have started the company!

Amanda - How often do you work at this company? (daily/weekly/monthly/etc)
Mr. Shelton - It all depends. Some weeks I don't do much at all, just some small maintenance on the 
website, or shipping a couple shirts. Other weeks we are creating new designs, taking shirts to print,
or participating in a fundraiser. Those can be hectic! Mostly it isn't much work during a regular week
though. We are a very small business, and work from home and mostly online based. Ultimately our goal
is just to help our environment a little bit.

Amanda - What’s the toughest part about working for Nagel and working at the company?
Mr. Shelton - It really isn't too bad. Like I said, my wife does most of the complicated behind the 
scenes work for the business so that I can totally focus on teaching. It is actually pretty cool being
able to show my students the work we are doing and ask for their feedback.

Amanda - What's the best part about working at the company?
Mr. Shelton - Seeing people wear and enjoy my designs is really neat. And it feels amazing to know
that we are helping to protect some really cool creatures, and making at least a small difference in the world.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Unless you have taken Mr. Shelton’s class you may or may not have already known about his company, but the 
message he spreads with it is so important. Now, not all of us can spend a year in China or travel to an 
elephant reserve in Thailand, but we can still see the effects of hunting, habitat destruction, and climate 
change here in America with the news and the internet. Still, even with these gigantic resources, some people
still don’t know how about it or how they can help, but with companies like Panda Red Apparel, people can 
help by just doing something as simple as buying a T-Shirt. 

‘How do the T-Shirts help?’ you may ask, well as said in the interview above, the T-Shirts are made from 100%
recycled materials and parts of profits go back to wildlife conservation groups. This may not seem like much
but when you put it into perspective, it all comes together. Think about it like this; let’s say, for conversations
sake, that for each shirt bought $2 goes back to a wildlife conservation. Now let's say that 100 people buy T-Shirts,
that means that $200 goes to conservation, that $2 doesn’t seem so small anymore. Then factor in that each T-Shirt
is made from 100% recycled materials. Not only is money going back to conservation programs, but these shirts are 
made from materials that already exist. This means less plastic is in the habitats of these already struggling animals,
and we don’t have to spend the money to create new materials that we clearly don’t need to be making. Just one shirt
can help in more ways than one. 

Even if you can’t buy a shirt from Panda Red, stop by their website. The message they are spreading and what they
are trying to do is something that everyone needs to know about. Share the website and get more people to read their story. 

As we go through the year we learn the personalities of our teachers, but something we never really get to see 
is what the lives of our teachers are like. Because of this missing piece we don’t get to hear the cool stories 
that they may have to tell. While knowing everything about our teachers isn’t essential, knowing some of the highlights
of their life can help us get to know them better, and form better connections with them. Ask you teachers if they 
have any cool stories that everyone should know!
